<title>Emacs Integration for Fossil</title>

This project is for integrating fossil (http://fossil-scm.org/) into
emacs (https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/) vc-mode.

You need emacs version 24.1 or better.  23.* is not supported anymore.

<h4>How Do I load Fossil support into emacs?</h4>

Short answer:

Install the vc-fossil package from the MELPA package repository then
customize the vc-handled-backend variable by adding "Fossil" to its
list of names.

Alternative, slightly longer, answer:

Instead of installing from MELPA you may clone this source repository
directly then add it manually to your Emacs setup as follows.

Add this to your .emacs file, or cut and paste this into the *scratch*
buffer and do
<code>C-x C-e</code> to execute it.

<pre>
(add-to-list 'vc-handled-backends 'Fossil t)
(load-file "/path/to/this/project/vc/el/vc-fossil.el")
</pre>
or if you would rather load the file lazily, compile the file (see
below) and use this instead.
<pre>
(add-to-list 'vc-handled-backends 'Fossil t)
(autoload 'vc-fossil-registered "/path/to/this/project/vc/el/vc-fossil.elc")
</pre>

To compile the file (with warnings) do the following
<pre>
emacs -batch -q -no-site-file -eval '(byte-compile-file "vc-fossil.el")'
</pre>
then you can load vc-fossil.elc, which should be nominally faster.

<h4>What emacs keys do I need?</h4>

This integrates fossil into emacs vc builtin mode.  The same keys will
work for fossil inside a fossil tree as for other scms outside.

A few are:

<table>
<tr><td><code>C-x v d</code></td><td>Run Fossil dired - like cvs-examine</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>C-x v l</code></td><td>When in a file, show log</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>v</code></td><td>In VC, do next action: merge/update/checkin</td></tr>
</table>

</table>

<h4>Credits</h4>

Over the years many folks have helped me (Venkat Iyer,
venkat@comit.com) with building and improving emacs-fossil.  Notable
are:

<ul>
  <li>Barak A. Pearlmutter, barak pearlmutter net :
    Major cleanup of my initial versions</li>
  <li>Frank Fisher, frank-fischer shadow-soft  de :
    colorized logs, annotate, a few fixes for the diff</li>
  <li>Paul Onions, ponions37 gmail com :
    emacs 25 support</li>
</ul>
    
<h4>Mirrors</h4>

This project is also mirrored into github at
https://github.com/venks1/emacs-fossil , primarily for MELPA.


